“Migrating telemetry and security agents from dockershim” task (#31607)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/migrating-telemetry-and-security-agents.md

<!-- overview -->

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

> Kubernetes' support for direct integration with Docker Engine is deprecated, and
> will be removed. Most apps do not have a direct dependency on runtime hosting

Reviewer: This PR has been open long enough for [present tense](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#use-present-tense) to be accurate. 😅 
```suggestion
Kubernetes' support for direct integration with Docker Engine is deprecated and
has been removed. Most apps do not have a direct dependency on runtime hosting
```

containers. However, there are still a lot of telemetry and monitoring agents

> that has a dependency on docker to collect containers metadata, logs and

Reviewer: Grammar nits
```suggestion
that have a dependency on Docker to collect containers metadata, logs, and
```

metrics. This document aggregates information on how to detect these

> dependencies and links on how to migrate these agents to use generic tools or

Reviewer: Tweak for clarity
```suggestion
dependencies as well as links on how to migrate these agents to use generic tools or
```

alternative runtimes.

## Telemetry and security agents

Within a Kubernetes cluster there are a few different ways to run telemetry or
security agents.  Some agents have a direct dependency on Docker Engine when
they run as DaemonSets or directly on nodes.

### Why do some telemetry agents communicate with Docker Engine?

Historically, Kubernetes was written to work specifically with Docker Engine.
Kubernetes took care of networking and scheduling, relying on Docker Engine for
launching and running containers (within Pods) on a node. Some information that
is relevant to telemetry, such as a pod name, is only available from Kubernetes
components. Other data, such as container metrics, is not the responsibility of
the container runtime. Early telemetry agents needed to query the container

> runtime **and** Kubernetes to report an accurate picture. Over time, Kubernetes

Reviewer: Use italics instead of bold for emphasis
```suggestion
runtime *and* Kubernetes to report an accurate picture. Over time, Kubernetes
```

gained the ability to support multiple runtimes, and now supports any runtime

> that is compatible with the container runtime interface.

Reviewer: Add a link for context
```suggestion
that is compatible with the [container runtime interface](/docs/concepts/architecture/cri/).
```

## Telemetry and security agents

Within a Kubernetes cluster there are a few different ways to run telemetry or security agents.

> Some agents have a direct dependency on Docker Engine when they as DaemonSets or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some agents directly depend on Docker Engine when they run as DaemonSets or
```

Reviewer 2: There's some technical ambiguity in what this phrase is saying. Please clarify which of the following meanings you intend to convey:
* **Some** (not all) agents that run as DaemonSets or directly on nodes depend on Docker Engine.
* Agents that run as DaemonSets or directly on nodes depend on Docker Engine.

telemetry agents on the node, make sure to check with the vendor of the agent whether it has dependency on Docker.

### Telemetry and security agent vendors
This section is intended to collect information about various telemetry and security agents that may have dependency on containers runtime. Support matrix section outlines the supported runtimes and Migration from dockershim section is designed to help users transition from dockershim to other container runtimes.

We keep the work in progress version of migration instructions for various telemetry and security agent vendors
in [Google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZFi4uKit63ga5sxEiZblfb-c23lFhvy6RXVPikS8wf0/edit#).
Please contact the vendor to get up to date instructions for migrating from dockershim.

> ## Migration from DockerShim

Reviewer 3: One nit I spotted:
```suggestion
## Migration from dockershim
```

We usually write dockershim in all-lowercase.

Author: Good to know, renamed dockershim in lowercase everywhere.

### ✅ [Aqua](https://www.aquasec.com)
No changes are needed - everything should work seamlessly on the runtime switch
### ✅ [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/product/)
How to migrate:
[https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/docker-deprecation/](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/docker-deprecation/)
The pod accessing Docker may have name containing: 
datadog-agent
datadog
dd-agent
### ✅ [Dynatrace](https://www.dynatrace.com/)
How to migrate:
[Migrating from Docker-only to generic container metrics in Dynatrace](https://community.dynatrace.com/t5/Best-practices/Migrating-from-Docker-only-to-generic-container-metrics-in/m-p/167030#M49)
Containerd support announcement: [Get automated full-stack visibility into
containerd-based Kubernetes
environments](https://www.dynatrace.com/news/blog/get-automated-full-stack-visibility-into-containerd-based-kubernetes-environments/)
CRI-O support announcement: [Get automated full-stack visibility into your CRI-O
Kubernetes containers

> (Beta)](https://www.dynatrace.com/news/blog/get-automated-full-stack-visibility-into-your-cri-o-kubernetes-containers-beta/)

Author: Not sure what would be the best way.

The SignalFx Smart Agent uses several different monitors for Kuberentes including kubernetes-cluster, kubelet-stats/kubelet-metrics, and docker-container-stats. Monitor kubelet-stats is already deprecated for Kubernetes <1.18 in favor of kubelet-metrics. Docker-container-stats is the one affected by dockershim removal. It should NOT be used with other runtimes.

How to migrate from dockershim-dependant agent:
1. Remove docker-container-stats from the list of [configured
monitors](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/integrations/agent/monitors/_monitor-config.html.)  Note, keeping this monitor enabled with non-dockershim runtime will result in incorrect metrics being reported when docker is installed on node and no metrics when docker is not installed.
2. [Enable and
configure](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/integrations/agent/monitors/_monitor-config.html)
[kubelet-metrics](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/integrations/agent/monitors/kubelet-metrics.html) monitor.

Note, the set of collected metrics will change. Please review your alerting rules and dashboards.

The pod accessing Docker may be named like:
 
  -  signalfx-agent
### ❌ Yahoo Kubectl Flame

> Flame does not currently support non-dockershim runtimes. See

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Flame does not support container runtimes other than dockershim. See
```

telemetry agents on the node, make sure to check with the vendor of the agent whether it has dependency on Docker.

### Telemetry and security agent vendors

> This section is intended to collect information about various telemetry and security agents that may have dependency on containers runtime. Support matrix section outlines the supported runtimes and Migration from dockershim section is designed to help users transition from dockershim to other container runtimes.

Reviewer 4: nit: Add a new line after the heading and before the first sentence.
nit: The security agent vendors listed in this section are third-party vendors? If so, add the third-party shortcode.

I'm not entirely clear on the first two sentences.

Reviewer 5: ```
[Migration from dockershim](#migration-from-dockershim) section ...
```

### Telemetry and security agent vendors

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

> This section is intended to collect information about various telemetry and security agents that may have dependency on containers runtime. Support matrix section outlines the supported runtimes and Migration from dockershim section is designed to help users transition from dockershim to other container runtimes.

Reviewer 5: The second statement contains some pointers to nowhere. Please fix.

Reviewer 6: @AugustasV ptal at @tengqm 's comment

> This section is intended to collect information about various telemetry and security agents that may have dependency on containers runtime. Support matrix section outlines the supported runtimes and Migration from dockershim section is designed to help users transition from dockershim to other container runtimes.

Reviewer 3: `dockershim` (all lowercase) is OK / more idiomatic

Redeploy Defenders with a YAML file created with the `--cri` flag. This is a standard installation method, so documentation for this can be found here, under the "Install Prisma Cloud on a CRI (non-Docker) cluster" heading:
[Install Prisma](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud/prisma-cloud-admin-compute/install/install_kubernetes.html)
The pod accessing Docker may be named like:
	-	twistlock-defender-ds

### ✅   [SignalFx (Splunk)](https://www.splunk.com/en_us/investor-relations/acquisitions/signalfx.html)

The SignalFx Smart Agent uses several different monitors for Kubernetes including kubernetes-cluster, kubelet-stats/kubelet-metrics, and docker-container-stats. The kubelet-stats monitor was previously deprecated by the vendor, in favor of kubelet-metrics. The docker-container-stats monitor is the one affected by dockershim removal. You should not use the `docker-container-stats` with container runtimes other than Docker Engine.

How to migrate from dockershim-dependant agent:
1. Remove docker-container-stats from the list of [configured monitors](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/monitor-config.md)

> Note, keeping this monitor enabled with non-dockershim runtime will result in incorrect metrics being reported when docker is installed on node and no metrics when docker is not installed.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Note: keeping this monitor enabled with non-dockershim runtime will result in incorrect metrics being reported when docker is installed on node and no metrics when docker is not installed.
```

### Telemetry and security agent vendors

> This section is intended to collect information about various telemetry and security agents that may have dependency on containers runtime. Support matrix section outlines the supported runtimes and Migration from dockershim section is designed to help users transition from dockershim to other container runtimes.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
This section is intended to collect information about various telemetry and security agents that may have a dependency on container runtimes. The Support matrix section outlines the supported runtimes and the Migration from dockershim section is designed to help users transition from dockershim to other container runtimes.
```

> This section is intended to collect information about various telemetry and security agents that may have a dependency on container runtimes. The Support matrix section outlines the supported runtimes and the Migration from dockershim section is designed to help users transition from dockershim to other container runtimes.

Reviewer 5: Please wrap long lines properly. Long lines are difficult for change tracking.

We keep the work in progress version of migration instructions for various telemetry and security agent vendors
in [Google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZFi4uKit63ga5sxEiZblfb-c23lFhvy6RXVPikS8wf0/edit#).
Please contact the vendor to get up to date instructions for migrating from dockershim.

## Migration from dockershim

### [Aqua](https://www.aquasec.com)

> No changes are needed - everything should work seamlessly on the runtime switch

Reviewer 5: missing a period at the end;
adding an empty line after line 88 is preferred.

### [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/product/)

How to migrate:
[https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/docker-deprecation/](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/docker-deprecation/)
The pod that accesses Docker Engine may have a name containing any of:

- `datadog-agent`
- `datadog`
- `dd-agent`

### [Dynatrace](https://www.dynatrace.com/)

How to migrate:
[Migrating from Docker-only to generic container metrics in Dynatrace](https://community.dynatrace.com/t5/Best-practices/Migrating-from-Docker-only-to-generic-container-metrics-in/m-p/167030#M49)

Containerd support announcement: [Get automated full-stack visibility into
containerd-based Kubernetes
environments](https://www.dynatrace.com/news/blog/get-automated-full-stack-visibility-into-containerd-based-kubernetes-environments/)

CRI-O support announcement: [Get automated full-stack visibility into your CRI-O Kubernetes containers (Beta)](https://www.dynatrace.com/news/blog/get-automated-full-stack-visibility-into-your-cri-o-kubernetes-containers-beta/)

> The pod accessing Docker may have name containing: 
> 	- dynatrace-oneagent

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The pod accessing Docker may have name containing: 

- `dynatrace-oneagent`
```

### [Falco](https://falco.org)

How to migrate:

> [Migrate Falco from dockershim](https://falco.org/docs/getting-started/deployment/#docker-deprecation-in-kubernetes)

Reviewer 5: Empty lines matter. Need an empty line after line 116.

Falco supports any CRI-compatible runtime (containerd is used in the default configuration); the documentation explains all details.
The pod accessing Docker may have name containing: 

> 		- falco

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `falco`
```

### [Prisma Cloud Compute](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud.html)

> Documentation for Prisma Cloud can be found here, under the "Install Prisma Cloud on a CRI (non-Docker) cluster" heading:
> [Install Prisma](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud/prisma-cloud-admin-compute/install/install_kubernetes.html)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Check [documentation for Prisma Cloud](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud/prisma-cloud-admin-compute/install/install_kubernetes.html),
under the "Install Prisma Cloud on a CRI (non-Docker) cluster" section.
```

The pod accessing Docker may be named like:

> 	-	twistlock-defender-ds

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

- `twistlock-defender-ds`
```

### [SignalFx (Splunk)](https://www.splunk.com/en_us/investor-relations/acquisitions/signalfx.html)

> The SignalFx Smart Agent (deprecated) uses several different monitors for Kubernetes including kubernetes-cluster, kubelet-stats/kubelet-metrics, and docker-container-stats. The kubelet-stats monitor was previously deprecated by the vendor, in favor of kubelet-metrics. The docker-container-stats monitor is the one affected by dockershim removal. You should not use the `docker-container-stats` with container runtimes other than Docker Engine.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The SignalFx Smart Agent (deprecated) uses several different monitors for Kubernetes including
`kubernetes-cluster`, `kubelet-stats/kubelet-metrics`, and `docker-container-stats`.
The `kubelet-stats` monitor was previously deprecated by the vendor, in favor of `kubelet-metrics`.
The `docker-container-stats` monitor is the one affected by dockershim removal.
You should not use the `docker-container-stats` with container runtimes other than Docker Engine.
```

How to migrate from dockershim-dependant agent:

> 1. Remove docker-container-stats from the list of [configured monitors](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/monitor-config.md)
> Note, keeping this monitor enabled with non-dockershim runtime will result in incorrect metrics being reported when docker is installed on node and no metrics when docker is not installed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Remove `docker-container-stats` from the list of [configured monitors](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/monitor-config.md).
   Note, keeping this monitor enabled with non-dockershim runtime will result in incorrect metrics
   being reported when docker is installed on node and no metrics when docker is not installed.
```

> 2. [Enable and configure kubelet-metrics](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/monitors/kubelet-metrics.md) monitor.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. [Enable and configure `kubelet-metrics`](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/monitors/kubelet-metrics.md) monitor.
```

Note, the set of collected metrics will change. Please review your alerting rules and dashboards.

> The pod accessing Docker may be named like:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The Pod accessing Docker may be named like:
```
nit: style guide

>   -  signalfx-agent

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `signalfx-agent`
```

### Yahoo Kubectl Flame

> Flame does not support container runtimes other than dockershim. See

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Flame does not support container runtimes other than Docker. See
```
dockershim is not a container runtime

Falco supports any CRI-compatible runtime (containerd is used in the default configuration); the documentation explains all details.
The pod accessing Docker may have name containing: 
- `falco`

### [Prisma Cloud Compute](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud.html)

Check [documentation for Prisma Cloud](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud/prisma-cloud-admin-compute/install/install_kubernetes.html),
under the "Install Prisma Cloud on a CRI (non-Docker) cluster" section.
The pod accessing Docker may be named like:
- `twistlock-defender-ds`

### [SignalFx (Splunk)](https://www.splunk.com/en_us/investor-relations/acquisitions/signalfx.html)

The SignalFx Smart Agent (deprecated) uses several different monitors for Kubernetes including
`kubernetes-cluster`, `kubelet-stats/kubelet-metrics`, and `docker-container-stats`.
The `kubelet-stats` monitor was previously deprecated by the vendor, in favor of `kubelet-metrics`.
The `docker-container-stats` monitor is the one affected by dockershim removal.
Do not use the `docker-container-stats` with container runtimes other than Docker Engine.

> How to migrate from dockershim-dependant agent:

Reviewer 3: nit: I'd use a 4th level heading here with a custom fragment identifier, to highlight that this vendor section includes inline advice rather than a hyperlink to vendor docs.

### Detecting Docker dependency from node agents

> In case your cluster nodes are customized and install additional security and

Reviewer: Tweaks for clarity
```suggestion
If your cluster nodes are customized and install additional security and
```

> telemetry agents on the node, make sure to check with the vendor of the agent
> whether it has dependency on Docker.

Reviewer: Tweaks for clarity
```suggestion
telemetry agents on the node, check with the agent vendor
to verify whether it has any dependency on Docker.
```

### Telemetry and security agent vendors

> This section is intended to collect information about various telemetry and

Reviewer: Slight tweak for accuracy
```suggestion
This section is intended to aggregate information about various telemetry and
```

> security agents that may have a dependency on container runtimes. The Support
> matrix section outlines the supported runtimes and the Migration from dockershim
> section is designed to help users transition from dockershim to other container
> runtimes.

Reviewer: There's no support matrix on the page. I think we can safely remove everything after the first sentence.
```suggestion
security agents that may have a dependency on container runtimes.
```

We keep the work in progress version of migration instructions for various telemetry and security agent vendors
in [Google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZFi4uKit63ga5sxEiZblfb-c23lFhvy6RXVPikS8wf0/edit#).
Please contact the vendor to get up to date instructions for migrating from dockershim.

## Migration from dockershim

### [Aqua](https://www.aquasec.com)

> No changes are needed - everything should work seamlessly on the runtime switch.

Reviewer: Grammar nit
```suggestion
No changes are needed: everything should work seamlessly on the runtime switch.
```

### [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/product/)

How to migrate:

> [https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/docker-deprecation/](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/docker-deprecation/)

Reviewer: Be consistent with page names as anchor text
```suggestion
[Docker deprecation in Kubernetes](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/docker-deprecation/)
```

How to migrate:

[Migrate Falco from dockershim](https://falco.org/docs/getting-started/deployment/#docker-deprecation-in-kubernetes)
Falco supports any CRI-compatible runtime (containerd is used in the default configuration); the documentation explains all details.
The pod accessing Docker may have name containing: 
- `falco`

### [Prisma Cloud Compute](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud.html)

Check [documentation for Prisma Cloud](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud/prisma-cloud-admin-compute/install/install_kubernetes.html),
under the "Install Prisma Cloud on a CRI (non-Docker) cluster" section.
The pod accessing Docker may be named like:
- `twistlock-defender-ds`

### [SignalFx (Splunk)](https://www.splunk.com/en_us/investor-relations/acquisitions/signalfx.html)

The SignalFx Smart Agent (deprecated) uses several different monitors for Kubernetes including
`kubernetes-cluster`, `kubelet-stats/kubelet-metrics`, and `docker-container-stats`.
The `kubelet-stats` monitor was previously deprecated by the vendor, in favor of `kubelet-metrics`.
The `docker-container-stats` monitor is the one affected by dockershim removal.

> You should not use the `docker-container-stats` with container runtimes other than Docker Engine.

Reviewer: Use [simple and direct language](content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/migrating-telemetry-and-security-agents.md)
```suggestion
Do not use the `docker-container-stats` with container runtimes other than Docker Engine.
```

How to migrate from dockershim-dependant agent:
1. Remove `docker-container-stats` from the list of [configured monitors](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/monitor-config.md).
   Note, keeping this monitor enabled with non-dockershim runtime will result in incorrect metrics
   being reported when docker is installed on node and no metrics when docker is not installed.

> 2. [Enable and configure `kubelet-metrics`](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/monitors/kubelet-metrics.md) monitor.

Reviewer: I really don't like [dual-sourcing third party content](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/content-guide/#dual-sourced-content). Can we link instead to an external canonical source? I know that this particular deprecation is an unusual circumstance, but if we can link to an external canonical source, that's preferable to hosting content that's guaranteed to go stale quickly.

Author: I tried to find external source by using different search engines, but couldn't find anything.

> Note, the set of collected metrics will change. Please review your alerting rules and dashboards.

Reviewer: Use callout format
```suggestion
{{< note >}}
The set of collected metrics will change. Review your alerting rules and dashboards.
{{< /note >}}
```

> The Pod accessing Docker may be named like:

Reviewer: Edit for clarity
```suggestion
The Pod accessing Docker may be named something like:
```
